---
layout: post
title: "Start with Why"
date: 2018-06-04
categories:
  - Personal
description:
image: http://w4.wallls.com/uploads/original/201711/17/wallls.com_143304.jpg
image-sm: http://w4.wallls.com/uploads/original/201711/17/wallls.com_143304.jpg
---

`"He who has a why to live can bear almost any how" - Nietzsche`


## Why did I start this blog?
### 1. To Sharpen the Saw

This idea comes from the book Seven Habits of Highly Effective People ([summary](https://blog.hubspot.com/sales/habits-of-highly-effective-people-summary)). In order to be effective, we have to devote time to renewing ourselves in key areas of our psyche-- you need to keep your saw sharp.

###### To Renew yourself...

---
| Physically      | Spiritually | Mentally | Emotionally |
|-----------------|-------------|----------|-------------|
|1. Eat well<br>2. Get sufficient rest/relaxation<br>3. Exercise regularly| 1. Practice daily meditation<br>2. Spend time in nature<br>3. __Immerse yourself in great literature & music__|1. __Read good literature__<br>2. __Keep a journal of thoughts & insights__<br> 3. Limit TV/Internet only to enriching subjects| 1. Seek to deeply understand people<br> 2. __Make contributions to meaningful projects that improve lives of others__|

You can see from the __bolded__ activities that the process of reading, understanding, and blogging will keep me my spirits and morale high. Pursuing this side project will leave me refreshed!

In a fast-paced high stress world, it is nice to have a platform and activity that is all my own. There are no barriers to entry-- just me dedicating time and effort to something personal that will pay dividends even without an audience.

I am doing this for me. An audience is just a bonus.
### 2. To Be Who I Am Becoming

I want to be a thought leader in artificial intelligence and cognitive science. That is something I would find deeply fulfilling. This blog is a step in the right direction. As stated in the book *Mastery*:

`Practice is vital in the journey of mastery. To be a master, you must fall in love with the process.`

Continually blogging is the best strategy for cultivating  mastery of the subject. Researching relevant topics will help me practice and improve. Falling in love // getting excited about blog posts will keep me motivated, improving, and learning.

I may not be the most informed researcher or the best writer, but if my content is interesting/useful to me hopefully others will feel the same way.

Information is so widely available now that it would be a missed opportunity not to try to take advantage. Becoming adept at learning outside of the classroom is crucial to success. As Jim Rohn says:

`Formal education will make you a living. Self-education will make you a fortune`

### 3. To Start
**Starting** is the hardest part of anything. Writing this first post was *hard.* I kept second guessing my word-choice, my tone, and my style. But really those are trivial concerns in comparison to actually producing content. As Ze Frank says :

`My pencils are sharp enough. Even the dull ones will make a mark`

Actually [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYlCVwxoL_g) is Ze Frank's *Invocation for Beginnings* speech, one of my all time favorites. It is incredible. Might get it tatoo'd on myself. What I love about Ze's speach is that is strikes at the heart of what keeps me from starting-- from past failures to comparisons to bad impulses-- and how to deal with each in turn. I could do a whole blog post on the poem...

### 3. To Keep Myself Accountable

All of this is all talk unless I actually do something about it.

Setting good goals and keeping myself accountable is 80% of the work it takes for me to finish a project or start a new habit. If I have to produce results or hit metrics for someone to see, I am WAY more likely to succeed in my endevour.
